---
layout: post
title: Deep Work by Cal Newport
date: 2018-03-10 10:46:00 -0600
categories: books
external: https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Work-Focused-Success-Distracted/dp/1455586692/ref=pd_sim_14_10?_encoding=UTF8&psc=1&refRID=V70TTGC0FCF1GJDKHE9G
tags: productivity focus
---
> To remain valuable in our economy, therefore, you must master the art of quickly learning complicated things. This task requires deep work. If you don’t cultivate this ability, you’re likely to fall behind as technology advances.
LOCATION: 148

> Two Core Abilities for Thriving in the New Economy 1. The ability to quickly master hard things. 2. The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed.
LOCATION: 305

> In the fall of 2012, Tom Cochran, the chief technology officer of Atlantic Media, became alarmed at how much time he seemed to spend on e-mail. So like any good techie, he decided to quantify this unease. Observing his own behavior, he measured that in a single week he received 511 e-mail messages and sent 284. This averaged to around 160 e-mails per day over a five-day workweek. Calculating further, Cochran noted that even if he managed to spend only thirty seconds per message on average, this still added up to almost an hour and a half per day dedicated to moving information around like a human network router. This seemed like a lot of time spent on something that wasn’t a primary piece of his job description.
LOCATION: 568

> Knowledge workers, I’m arguing, are tending toward increasingly visible busyness because they lack a better way to demonstrate their value. Let’s give this tendency a name. Busyness as Proxy for Productivity: In the absence of clear indicators of what it means to be productive and valuable in their jobs, many knowledge workers turn back toward an industrial indicator of productivity: doing lots of stuff in a visible manner.
LOCATION: 684

> Human beings, it seems, are at their best when immersed deeply in something challenging.
LOCATION: 910
Immensely true, and something I'm working at doing better.

> For an individual focused on deep work, the implication is that you should identify a small number of ambitious outcomes to pursue with your deep work hours.
LOCATION: 1480

> Efforts to deepen your focus will struggle if you don’t simultaneously wean your mind from a dependence on distraction. Much in the same way that athletes must take care of their bodies outside of their training sessions, you’ll struggle to achieve the deepest levels of concentration if you spend the rest of your time fleeing the slightest hint of boredom.
LOCATION: 1713

> The implication is that once you’ve hit your deep work limit in a given day, you’ll experience diminishing rewards if you try to cram in more. Shallow work, therefore, doesn’t become dangerous until after you add enough to begin to crowd out your bounded deep efforts for the day.
LOCATION: 2408

## Biggest Takeaways
1. Deep work is what provides the most value, but it is usually least focused on in knowledge work because the outcome is undefined. Define the outcome, and you can focus on deeper work.
2. Focus should be our default state. We need to minimize or eliminate distraction to be effective.
3. Schedule “break focus” blocks, instead of scheduling “focus” time.
4. We can keep doing intense mental work all day, but we need different types of mental work to give our brains a break.s
